LAST LECTURE ANALYSIS

	Playing the hand we are dealt is everyone's obligation. You cannot change the cards you were given, you cannot change the world that formed before you were born, but you can live the way you choose within it. Our choices are our own, despite what the world will force us into. This leads to the interesting idea proposed in the video: brick walls - the idea that life makes you prove how badly you want something. This can be viewed as a somewhat karmic or fate-based idea. The claim that life has a inherit give and take would also mean that life was feeling and could even recognize desires and hard work, but this I do not agree with. It reminds me of an old saying, "If effort amounted to success, the donkey would own the farm". Life is unfeeling and unbiased. It is just as logical as it is nonsensical. There is a chaos to life that does not care for our dreams. This is why it is our strife as beings that if we are to achieve something that we must do it "in spite of" just as much as we do it "because of".
	We also have influence, however. We have influence through our actions to help others. Our actions have consequences and those consequences can be good or bad and they can raise others up or tear them down. The speaker of the "Last Lecture", talks extensively on inspiring others to achieve their dreams. His lecture is mostly anecdotal, telling stories of many he has interacted with and how their interactions led, whether directly or indirectly, to these people achieving their own dreams. These people could not do it without themselves, however. The world will not do for them. As much as we can try our best to inspire others they must ultimately do the work for themselves.
	Other than these ideas, what stood out to me was the process of creation that the speaker and his students got to participate in. The speaker himself not only worked on the virtual worlds his students did, but he also previously worked with Disney's Imagineers, which is a relatively impressive feat. The process of making movies, video games, virtual worlds or whatever else, these students got to do. This was a dream for many, if not all of them, but it required a lot of hard work and a lot of obstacles. This is the part that resonates with me most. I adore the very process of creation in any and all forms it takes. The creative process is aided by others who one adores, others than inspire creativity, others that can lead and others that can raise others above what they may believe themselves to be capable of.
	Which leads me to the root of what the lecture is about: dreams. Dreams can sought after and worked for by an individual, but we can also help others achieve their dreams. "Help", in this sense, could also be considered an understatement. Everyone has different resources, contacts, knowledge, skills, experience and wisdom. All of these are invaluable when passed on to those who can make use of them. Without granting another the resources or knowledge one has, the person may have a difficult, or maybe even near-impossible chance of achieving their dreams without it. 
	We have influence, resources, and lives lived prior to those we meet. We can use all of that to help ourselves and others to make everyone's dreams come true; which allows us to create worlds, tells stories and change the world to be a better place. Together we can be greater than the one - greater dreams, greater accomplishments and a greater world.