LEARNING STYLES ANALYSIS

	The article makes suggestions both in favor and against the idea that individual learning styles not only exist, but what their significance is as it applies to developing new skills. What I believe it glosses over, however, is other variables. The article does acknowledge other factors beyond learning techniques themselves, but it mostly ignores these other variables. The process of learning is deeply complex, as much as the article seems to simplify it for sake of argument. Learning a new skill or obtaining new knowledge is not as simple as changing your study schedule from once to twice a week or testing yourself on the material. Human life has variables such as prior knowledge, life stressors, study environment, etc. Rarely, if ever, are singular learning techniques ever applied by themselves. Supplementing and complimenting knowledge through multiple different processes is how we learn - not through one verbal lesson.
	The article seems to either forget or ignore this. Of course, if one student over another uses visual learning 50% of the time versus the others 30% it may not seem to matter at all, but that is because of how it is being supplemented. What the studies should reevaluate is the effect that omitting certain learning styles and techniques could have. If we do not allow ourselves multiple different ways of retaining and gaining information, then we make the process and the retention exponentially more difficult.
	Perhaps this is why the belief is so prevalent. People need a jumping off point. People need to feel as though they are learning and holding onto information. Without certain learning styles, people may feel less inclined and less productive. In this way, the article and the studies provided could very much be correct: that the specific perceived learning styles do not necessarily matter - especially if they are being supplemented properly, according to my proposal - but what matters is how it starts and the feeling the learning techniques gives the learner.